# 2. More Html/CSS

## 2. More Html/CSS

## Lesson objectives

* Understand enough about HTML and CSS inorder to be able to move on to bootstrap tomorrow

## Lesson time to deliever:

2 hours

## Lesson Content

Slide Deck

{% file src="../.gitbook/assets/web-dev-lesson-2.pptx" %}

### Html

_Make sure explain close every Tag_

#### Div and div classes

_Go through Div tag. Explain usefulness: General way to group together elements, especially for styling. Show styling later_ What is a div tag?

Div is a tag that we use to define a section / division in HTML

Acts as a container for html elements to be styled in CSS

#### Pre/Br tags

How do you split this address up?

```text
<p> 12 Fox Lane
London
SW1 8DD
</p>
```

#### Line breaks in html

A line break is a seperation of text through the creation of a new line, we can use this to format text such as address lines to create a single text with a text on each new line.

We can accomplish this through the use of two different HTML tags

Break tag - Seperates the line where the tag is used - has no ending tags.

Pre tag - Keeps the formatting for the text exactly the same including line breaks and spaces.

#### Break Tag \(br\) Example

```markup
<html>
    <title>Welcome to Web Development Lesson 2</title>
    <body>
        <p>This<br>is<br>a<br>Line<br>Break<br>
    </body>
</html>
```

#### Pre Tag \(pre\) Example

```markup
<html>
    <title>Welcome to Web Development Lesson 2</title>
    <body>
        <pre>This is the pre tag              ,
             any information displayed in this tage
             preserves spaces and line breaks.
        </pre>
    </body>
</html>
```

### CSS

Allows you to add styles. Styles change the appearance of an element and make it look lovely

Three ways of doing it:

* The style tag allows us to do inline styles in the html
* Can be a linked style sheet
* Can use the style attribute on an element

Example of styling using style tag:

```markup
<html>
<head>
<style>
.city {
  background-color: tomato;
  color: white;
  border: 2px solid black;
  margin: 20px;
  padding: 20px;
}
</style>
</head>
<body>

<div class="city">
  <h2>London</h2>
  <p>London is the capital of England.</p>
</div>

<div class="city">
  <h2>Paris</h2>
  <p>Paris is the capital of France.</p>
</div>

<div class="city">
  <h2>Tokyo</h2>
  <p>Tokyo is the capital of Japan.</p>
</div>

</body>
</html>
```

#### Style attribute

_Display same with style attribute_ _Get students to do it and save as a new file_

#### CSS in a separate file

_Display same with CSS in seperate file and linked on html page_ _Get students to do it and save as a new file_

#### How to target element to be styled

How to target element to be styled:

* By tag
* By element id
* By class

_Inform we have been using class and demonstrate by tag \(e.g. the h2 tag\)_

#### Closing to students

You can get CSS help from here: [Css-Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/)

Html page  
\|-&gt; Css files  
\|-&gt; Js scripts

## Teacher Recommendations:

* Live server in vs code to live reload code
* Have a split screen setup so don't have to switch screens as often.
* Pre-prepare the html files for the exs for the students so can just jump right in and for example add the style attribute to an element.
* DO NOT cover tables: won't be useful in next few days

