# 6. Interacting with the DOM

## Lesson objectives

* Students learn how to use JS to update the html page \(DOM\)
* Students learn how to use JS to handle html events
* Students learn how to use JS to navigate to a different page

## Lesson time to deliever:

1 sessions, 1.5hrs

## Lesson content

### document.getElementById

 If an element has the `id` attribute, we can get the element using the method `document.getElementById(id)`, no matter where it is.

```markup
<div id="elem">
  <div id="elem-content">Element</div>
</div>

<script>
  // get the element
  let elem = document.getElementById('elem');

  // make its background red
  elem.style.background = 'red';
</script>
```

{% hint style="info" %}
**The `id` must be unique**

The `id` must be unique. There can be only one element in the document with the given `id`.

If there are multiple elements with the same `id`, then the behavior of methods that use it is unpredictable, e.g. `document.getElementById` may return any of such elements at random. So please stick to the rule and keep `id` unique.
{% endhint %}

### querySelectorAll

By far, the most versatile method, `elem.querySelectorAll(css)` returns all elements inside `elem` matching the given CSS selector.

Here we look for all `<li>` elements that are last children:

```markup
<ul>
  <li>The</li>
  <li>test</li>
</ul>
<ul>
  <li>has</li>
  <li>passed</li>
</ul>
<script>
  let elements = document.querySelectorAll('ul > li:last-child');

  for (let elem of elements) {
    alert(elem.innerHTML); // "test", "passed"
  }
</script>
```

### Events

_An event_ is a signal that something has happened. All DOM nodes generate such signals \(but events are not limited to DOM\).

Here’s a list of the most useful DOM events, just to take a look at:

**Mouse events:**

* `click` – when the mouse clicks on an element \(touchscreen devices generate it on a tap\).

**Keyboard events:**

* `keydown` and `keyup` – when a keyboard key is pressed and released.

**Form element events:**

* `submit` – when the visitor submits a `<form>`.
* `focus` – when the visitor focuses on an element, e.g. on an `<input>`.

**Document events:**

* `DOMContentLoaded` – when the HTML is loaded and processed, DOM is fully built.



```markup
<input value="Click me" onclick="alert('Click!')" type="button">
```

Do a demo using button click to change the webpage

```markup
 <button id='elem'>Click me</button> 
```

```javascript
 let elem = document.getElementById('elem');
 
 elem.addEventListener("click", changePage); // can do like this
 elem.onclick = function(){changePage}; // or this way
 
 function changePage(){
   window.location.href = "https://stackoverflow.com/";
 }
 
```

